Feat 2381 grid docs (#2423)
grommet/hpe-design-system: aries-site/src/pages/components/grid.mdx

  width={{ min: 'medium' }}
  height="auto"
>
  <MixedColumns1 />
</Example>

<br /><br />

And, `columns={[ '2/3', '1/3' ]}` would result in two columns with proportional 
widths:

<Example
  horizontalLayout
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/feat-2381-grid-docs/aries-site/src/examples/components/grid/MixedColumns2.js"
  width={{ min: 'medium' }}
  height="auto"
>
  <MixedColumns2 />
</Example>

#### Flexible Columns
Flexible columns is where Grid really shines. They allow content to elegantly scale and designs to be dynamic.

The main idea is defining columns as a min-max range. Between those bounds, the column is allowed to 
flex according to its content 
and the space available to the grid as a whole. This allows content to be consistently displayed in an 
organized and cohesive fashion across a variety of screen widths.

The min-max range is specified using a two-item array, instead of a single string. 
The first item is the min and second max.

```
// 3 columns. First and second columns are defined as min-max 
// ranges. The third, as a fixed width.

columns={[

>   ['small', 'medium'], // column 1 is able to flex

Reviewer: This code snippet doesn't match the example below which confused me.

Author: addressed, by making consistent

  ['medium', 'large'], // column 2 is able to flex
  'small',             // column 3 is always 'small'
]};
```

<Example
  horizontalLayout
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/feat-2381-grid-docs/aries-site/src/examples/components/grid/MinMaxColumns1.js"
  width={{ min: 'medium' }}
  height="auto"
>
  <MinMaxColumns1 />
</Example>

<br/><br/>

Using `auto` and/or `flex` as min-max values provides even more flexibility:

 - `auto` allows the 
column's width to be defined by its contents; it says, "make 
my column as wide as my content needs."
- `flex` allows the column to grow and fill the any excess width in the grid. If multiple columns use 
`flex`, they share the excess width evenly.

See `auto` and `flex` in action in the example below, or applied in a [dashboard template](/templates/dashboards#two-column-dashboard).

<Example
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/feat-2381-grid-docs/aries-site/src/examples/components/grid/MinMaxColumns2.js"
  width={{ min: 'medium' }}
  height="auto"
  showResponsiveControls={['fullscreen']}
  overflow="auto"
>

>   <MinMaxColumns2 />

Reviewer: Curious what this would look like if they were both "auto"? Would it be valuable to have that included as well?

Author: I clarified some of the description above to describe that scenario. I'll push up the changes. Let me know if that satisfies your curiosity, or if an additional example is needed.

Reviewer: This takes care of my curiosities. Think we can stick with that and no additional example is needed.

>
  <GridExample />
</Example>

## Getting to know Grid
Grid is a powerful tool. It provides tremendous flexibility and control enabling designers and 

> developers at HPE to create optimal user experiences at any screen size or resolution!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
developers at HPE to create optimal user experiences at any screen size or resolution.
```
Since we don't use exclamations anywhere else, this felt a little out of character.

Author: but its SO EXCITING!!!!

done.

With all of Grid's power, there is a bit of a learning curve. The following introduces its key 
concepts and will accelerate your command of the tool.

### Background
Based on [CSS Grid Layout](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout), 
Grommet's Grid simplifies and presents the API in a manner consistent with other components 
in the Grommet library.

Grid is composed of columns and rows and its properties allow for:
- Fixed column widths and row heights, when use cases desire precise dimensions for grid cells.

> - Flexible column widths and heights, allowing grid cell contents to gracefully respond across 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Flexible column widths and row heights, allowing grid cell contents to gracefully respond across 
```

Author: done

following examples will demonstrate how these properties may be applied to affect 
[content layouts](/templates/content-layouts).

### Columns
Columns may be specified as [uniform widths](#uniform-columns), [mixed widths](#mixed-width-columns), 
or as [min-max ranges](#flexible-columns) which allow the contents to flex gracefully.

#### Uniform Columns
Uniform columns are ideal for presenting a collection of like items such as a grid of images, 
a catalog of services, or a [dashboard of cards](/templates/dashboards#three-column-dashboard).

Specifying the column width as single string will repeat multiple columns of that size, as long as 
there is room for more. For example, `columns="medium"` will fit as many "medium" columns into the 
grid as the overall width allows. Within a wide screen, this might allow 3 or 4 columns; within a narrow 
screen, maybe only 1 or 2.

<Example
  horizontalLayout
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/feat-2381-grid-docs/aries-site/src/examples/components/grid/UniformColumns.js"
  width={{ min: 'medium' }}
>
  <UniformColumns />
</Example>

#### Mixed-Width Columns

> Mixed-width columns allow for control over layouts desiring columns of various widths to appropriately present 

Reviewer: Having a hard time following this sentence. Maybe break it up into:

"Mixed-width columns allow for control over layouts desiring columns of various widths. This can help to appropriately present different content types or establish content hierarchy with wider columns for primary content and narrower for secondary content such as an [activity feed](https://deploy-preview-2423--keen-mayer-a86c8b.netlify.app/templates/dashboards#two-column-dashboard).

Author: Great callout. Thank you for the suggestion. Done.

their contents, establish content hierarchy with wider columns for primary content and narrower for secondary 
content such as an [activity feed](/templates/dashboards#two-column-dashboard).

Mixed-width columns are specified in an array. The number of items in the array dictate the number of columns 
in the grid. 

For example, columns specified as `columns={[ 'small', 'xsmall', 'xsmall' ]}` would create a three 
column grid with corresponding widths: 

<Example
  horizontalLayout
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/feat-2381-grid-docs/aries-site/src/examples/components/grid/MixedColumns1.js"
  width={{ min: 'medium' }}
  height="auto"
>
  <MixedColumns1 />
</Example>

<br /><br />

> And, `columns={[ '2/3', '1/3' ]}` would result in two columns with proportional 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And, `columns={[ '2/3', '1/3' ]}` would result in two columns with widths proportional to the total width of the Grid.
```

Author: done.

widths:

<Example
  horizontalLayout
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/feat-2381-grid-docs/aries-site/src/examples/components/grid/MixedColumns2.js"
  width={{ min: 'medium' }}
  height="auto"
>
  <MixedColumns2 />
</Example>

#### Flexible Columns

> Flexible columns is where Grid really shines. They allow content to elegantly scale and designs to be dynamic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flexible columns are where Grid really shines. They allow content to elegantly scale and designs to be dynamic.
```
We refer to this as "They" in the next sentence, so keeping with the plurality.

> The main idea is defining columns as a min-max range. Between those bounds, the column is allowed to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With flexible columns, columns are defined as a min-max range. Between those bounds, the column is allowed to 
```

Author: done

> The main idea is defining columns as a min-max range. Between those bounds, the column is allowed to 

Reviewer: The column is allowed to flex as large as the max and as small as the min, depending on its content and the space available to the grid as a whole.

Author: Great suggestion. Done.

flex according to its content 
and the space available to the grid as a whole. This allows content to be consistently displayed in an 
organized and cohesive fashion across a variety of screen widths.

The min-max range is specified using a two-item array, instead of a single string. 
The first item is the min and second max.

```
// 3 columns. First and second columns are defined as min-max 
// ranges. The third, as a fixed width.

columns={[
  ['small', 'medium'], // column 1 is able to flex
  ['medium', 'large'], // column 2 is able to flex
  'small',             // column 3 is always 'small'
]};
```

<Example
  horizontalLayout
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/feat-2381-grid-docs/aries-site/src/examples/components/grid/MinMaxColumns1.js"
  width={{ min: 'medium' }}
  height="auto"
>

>   <MinMaxColumns1 />

Reviewer: Wishing there was someway to resize the example inline to understand this behavior better

Author: I'll think on that.

`flex`, they share the excess width evenly.

See `auto` and `flex` in action in the example below by adjusting your browser width, or applied in a [dashboard template](/templates/dashboards#two-column-dashboard).

<Example
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/feat-2381-grid-docs/aries-site/src/examples/components/grid/MinMaxColumns2.js"
  width={{ min: 'medium' }}
  height="auto"
  showResponsiveControls={['fullscreen']}
  overflow="auto"
>
  <MinMaxColumns2 />
</Example>

### Rows
Rows generally share the same properties as [columns](#columns). Accordingly, they won't be repeated here. 

That said, there a two primary items to call out:
1. Just like columns, rows are specified in an array. Each item in the array represent an additional row.
1. The vast majority of time rows will be specified using a fixed height, or as `auto` to let the row's height be defined by its 
contents.

### Gap

Use `gap` to define the spacing applied between columns and rows.

As best practice, use [t-shirt sizing](/foundation/tshirt-sizing?q=gap#t-shirt-sizing-for-spacing-and-other-styles) 

> to define gaps, that keeps layouts consistent and easier to implement and maintain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to define gaps. T-shirt sizing keeps layouts consistent and easily maintainable.
```
keep parallel with adjectives.

Author: Done.

> Gap may be applied to columns and rows, independently or simulatneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gap may be applied to columns and rows, independently or simultaneously.
```

Author: Done.

```
// both column gaps and rows gaps will be medium
gap="medium" 

// column and row gaps applied independently
gap={{ 
  column: 'medium', 
  row: 'xsmall'
}}

```

<Example
  horizontalLayout
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/feat-2381-grid-docs/aries-site/src/examples/components/grid/GapExample.js"
  width={{ min: 'medium' }}
  height="auto"
>
  <GapExample />
</Example>

## Implementing Grid

> The following implementations are not mutually exclusive. They may be mixed and matched

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following implementations are not the only ways Grid can be implemented. They may be mixed and matched
```
simplifying the language a little.

Author: nice. Rephrased.

to define gaps. T-shirt sizing keeps layouts consistent and easy to maintain.
- Gap may be applied to columns and rows, independently or simultaneously.

```
// both column gaps and rows gaps will be medium
gap="medium" 

// column and row gaps applied independently
gap={{ 
  column: 'medium', 
  row: 'xsmall'
}}

```

<Example
  horizontalLayout
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/feat-2381-grid-docs/aries-site/src/examples/components/grid/GapExample.js"
  width={{ min: 'medium' }}
  height="auto"
>
  <GapExample />
</Example>

## Implementing Grid
Grid is not limited to the following implementations. Approaches may be mixed and matched
as desired, but are presented with the intent to focus on the key concepts for each.

### Fluid Grids
Fluid grids allow the grid to grow and adapt to the grid's container width and the content provided. 

As more content is added, it fills the Grid left to right, top to bottom. Columns are added or removed as 
the screen's width is adjusted.

- Great for presenting dynamic content where the number of items in the grid are unknown. Examples might 

> be applying filters to a catalog of services, presenting a dashboard where the user may customize the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be:
- applying filters to a catalog of services
- presenting a dashboard where the user may customize the included widgets
- presenting image results returned from a search query 
```
need to remove the line below this if suggestion is merged directly

included widgets, or image results returned from a search query.
- Make responsive layouts easy to implement.
- Often implemented with [uniform columns](#uniform-columns).

The following example demonstrates a fluid grid consisting of 'small' columns. Adjust your browser's width 
and notice how the grid adjusts by adding/removing columns and rows.

<Example
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/feat-2381-grid-docs/aries-site/src/examples/components/grid/FluidGrid1.js"
  width="100%"
  height="auto"
>
  <FluidGrid1 />
</Example>

> <br />

Reviewer: We should probably consider how to make "Example" smarter in creating space below itself when it isn't followed by a heading, but that is a separate PR/scope of work.

Reviewer: I'm good with this for the time being.

<br />

The contents within a grid's cells do not have to fill the cell. Grid's `align` and `justify` props may be applied 
to vertically and horizontally align the content within the cell as desired. Alternatively, an individual cell's 
content may be vertically aligned using its `alignSelf` prop.

<Example
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/feat-2381-grid-docs/aries-site/src/examples/components/grid/FluidGrid2.js"
  width="100%"
  height="auto"
>

>   <FluidGrid2 />

Reviewer: This example is a little overwhelming at first glance -- hard to know when align, justify, and alignSelf are being used. Maybe we can enhance to use the content labels like you were doing for the column width demos. on this one, we would label if a given cell has a specific "alignSelf" prop / what the overall grid has?

Happy to let that be tackled in "Part 2" of the grid documentation since at least the code will be paired with this visual.

Author: Let's tackle in part 2. We may even eliminate it.
